Let's talk about scopes and
type parameters.
This one is not, I don't think it's
particularly difficult to understand.
Because thankfully,
type params work just like variables.
So here's an example of a function here.
So we've got a function
here called eatApple and
it takes a callback as its last argument,
right?
And so we're gonna say,
receiveFruitBasket.
That's another function.
We're past a bowl, whatever a bowl means,
the types here aren't important.
We're saying, thanks for the fruit basket.
And in this scope,
you can access both, right?
It's an argument passed to the function.
In this callback here, bowl and
apple can both be accessed, right?
You can always access
things in outer scopes, but
you can't access things in a more
interscope compared to what you exist in.
Like I can't access apple up here.
All right,
let's look at the type param equivalent.
So we've got a function here.
Let's observe how it works first before
we start looking at how the function's
defined.
So I've got a tuple creator
that takes an argument and
then it returns a function,
and I can pass an argument
into that function, and what do I get out?
3 and null, so I kind of like,
I start the topple by
providing the first element and
it returns a function.
And then I give this finish
tuple function a null and
that becomes the second
element of the tuple.
And look at this, I can say finish tuple
pass it a bunch of stuff and look at that.
I get a number array here, so I'm kind of
reusing that three In two places, right?
I can finish it as one tuple or
I can finish it as this other
tuple with an array of numbers.
So let's look at the function itself.
It's pretty simple, we take an argument.
We return a function,
that function takes an argument and
this is what that inner function returns.
It's just first and last, that's it.
So note that up here,
if I were to create something like.
Do that.
There's no S up here.
S is a type param that is only
related to this inner function.
We can't use it in the outer scope.
But in this inner function,
we can use both.
Type params work just like
variables in terms of scoping.
It's very common like you could have
a class that's generic over one thing and
has a type param for that, and then
you could have particular methods that
are generic over another thing, and you
could have one of those methods return yet
another function that's generic
over something entirely different.
You can have scopes with type params just
like you can have scopes over variable.
They play by the same rules,
thankfully because it makes it
easy to intuit how this works.
It's not exceedingly common to see this,
although I would say the most common
case is classes and methods, but
this is sort of the functional programming
example here the inner and outer function.
So let's talk about some best
practices around type params.
We already have our HasId and
our dictionary interfaces, so
I'm not gonna uncomment those.
But what I'm gonna do is create
two different functions,
their implementation,
line 109 and line 113.
You can see those are the same functions
do the same thing at runtime, but
their type params are defined differently.
So up here, I'm saying T extends a HasId
array and I take in a type param T.
Here I'm saying, T extends HasId and
I take in an array of Ts.
Let's look at what happens when we
compare the results of these two things.
So not super important what these
classes are, I just made some things for
an interesting example.
We have a payment.
We have an invoice.
It's just so I can have like two different
flavors of things that will not type check
against each other.
Here's result one with example one.
Here's result two with example two and
just to remind,
you example one is this one, right?
It's the one that says,
T extends an array of HasIds.
These both taking array T,
the list that comes in.
It must be an array.
In either case, there's the array
on the right side of the tooltip.
There's the array on the right
side of the tooltip.
It's just two different
ways of expressing this.
Here's result one.
It's an array of payment or invoice.
So any position of that
array can be either,
which is interesting and
then let's look at example two.
So it's a list of payment or invoice.
So here's the array over here.
So we get a union type here.
In both cases, it's just sort of like,
does it end up also being
represented in the type RAM?
Let's look at this one one more time.
That's in both in either case,
but look at the return type here.
HasId or undefined and then this one,
payment or invoice or undefined?
That's a big difference.
Remember, we talked about how
the a good generic will that type
information flow through it and
you will lose that type information.
We're losing type information and
example one HasId is a pretty lowest
common denominator type, right?
It's just this thing with an id property.
We can't treat these as instances of a
class even, certainly not as payments and
invoices.
So what's happening here is it
has to do with what these
lists end up being.
Up here, you can see that we regard
these as an array of HasIds.
When pop returns,
it's HasId are undefined.
That's what comes out of this function,
you don't see a T.
I mean, you see T extends HasId there,
but the way pop is defined.
It's sort of the lowest common
denominator that ends up flowing
into this type over here.
We've got an array of T's
when we pop we pop out a T.
So my advice to you here is specify
your constraints in the most
simple way you can.
It turns out that there are two
constraints that we really want to apply
to this argument.
One is that it's got to be an array and
the other is that
each member of the array has
to have an id property on it.
And here we're trying to do too much,
I would argue.
We're trying to say, let's put both
of those in the type param, right?
Whereas here we're saying,
I'm just gonna talk about T.
There is an array piece, but
I can use the type of the argument
to capture that information.
And so we're sort of trying to define
a type param constraint at the lowest
possible level and
that maximizes the chance that type
information will flow through your
generic functions or generic code in
the way you would hope where there's
a minimal loss of type information.